- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're looking at
lists, tuples, and sets.
The first thing to do is to create
a new file and I'm gonna save it,
and call it lists_tuples_sets.py,
that's just so Atom knows that
this is a Python file and gives a syntax.
Highlighting, and things like that.
In the last video, we looked at variables,
and we saw that we could create variables
such as strings, or integers,
and we could essentially store the value,
of whatever it is we wanted to store,
inside a box called, in
this case, my variable.
But, what we noticed, maybe
we didn't notice, but,
what was there, is a
variable for every value.
So here's why that can be a problem.
Say you have a programme that calculates
the average grade of a student.
So, a student can have a number of grades,
such as grade one, which can be 77,
grade two, that can be 80, grade three,
that can be 90, it's obviously
getting better over time.
And you wanna calculate the
average of these things.
We know that an average is the sum
of the elements, 77 plus 80 plus 90,
divided by the number of elements,
in this case, three.
So we could calculate
the average by saying
grade one, plus grade
two, plus grade three,
divided by three, also
remembering that the
divide has preference over the plus,
so we have to put the brackets in there.
Okay, so this is fair enough.
But what is there are more exams,
grade four equals 95, grade 5 equals 100,
then we have to go back to our code
and change it, grade
four, plus grade five,
divided by five, and then if this
keeps increasing obviously this
becomes more and more unsustainable,
you end up with maybe 20 variables,
and then you have to
change the code every time,
and also having something
like this, means that if, um,
if you've got somebody
using your programme,
and they want more grades,
they're gonna need to change the code,
and so on so it's not really sustainable.
So ideally what we would have,
is a way to keep adding grades,
without creating more variables.
And fortunately we have
that, it is called a list,
so we can do something
like 77, 80, 90, 95, 100.
And then instead of grade one,
we would obviously call this grades.
And here's how we would
calculate an average.
Now that we've got the grades,
this is a list of grades,
or, well, this is really
just a list of numbers
but we can imagine they are grades,
and, they are comma separated,
and they are between square brackets,
so we've got five grades here,
we've got exactly grades dot,
sorry, len grades here.
Len is a method, just like print is,
but it calculates the
number of items in a list,
so len grades would give us,
and I'm here kind of
waiting for an answer,
that I know isn't coming,
it will give us five,
because there are five elements there.
So let's save that, and
if we wanted to calculate
the sum of grades, take a wild guess
as to how you would do that.
And I'll give you a hint,
we want to calculate
the sum of the grades.
I'm sure you guessed
it, it is sum of grades.
And that would be that.
So we would sum the grades together,
divided by the length
of grades which is five,
and that would give it an average.
So what does that mean?
Well, we can add more grades,
and then sum and len automatically
calculate the correct thing.
So that's a list, and there
is a fairly similar thing,
that is using single, normal brackets.
And this is called a tuple.
The only difference
with a tuple, to a list,
is that the tuple is something
that's called immutable.
So we cannot increase the size of a tuple.
So this tuple for example
has seven elements,
and we can obviously
add more elements here,
but, there are ways for
our code to increase
the size of grades, we can
add elements using code,
grades.append(108) for example.
A couple grades, there.
There are ways to increase
the size of the list,
there are no ways of
increasing the size of a tuple,
because tuples are immutable.
Immutable, they cannot be mutated,
they cannot be changed.
So once you have a tuple, you
cannot increase it's size.
And whereas you can do grades.append,
or your list variable.append,
and that increases the size of the list
by adding an item at the end.
Finally, we've also got set grades.
This is not a very useful
type of data in this case,
but nevertheless you could have
a set of grades, and
what a set of grades is,
or, just a set really, is
a collection of unique,
unique and unordered.
So what that means is, they are unique,
so here we've got two hundreds,
and so this would not be okay for a set,
and they're also unordered,
and what that means is that,
it doesn't necessarily have to
be in order to the set.
Um, so for example, if we print grades,
we will always get 77 at the start,
because that's the first
element, if we print set grades,
we may not get 77 at the beginning.
We may get 77 at the beginning,
but we may also not get
77 at the beginning.
So, let's go ahead into the terminal,
and print this out,
and as you can see, we printed out a set,
and we didn't get 77 in the beginning,
we got 80.
And also, as an aside, notice how
there's only one hundred there,
whereas in our set we've got two hundreds.
That's because this was there twice,
so one of them just got removed.
So that's what unique and unordered means.
And the tuple grades, um,
they're just immutable,
so you cannot increase the size,
and finally the list is sort of
the most flexible of them all.
You can, remove elements,
you can add elements,
and all that stuff.
In some cases you may wanna
use a tuple over a list,
when you don't need to be able
to remove or add elements.
And sometimes that can be a bit safer.
And you would wanna
use a set when you have
a collection of unique
and unordered elements,
that you may wanna do set operations with.
Set operations are very important,
and we're gonna look at
them in the very next video,
alongside with a couple other things
that we can do with lists and tuples.
So without further ado,
I'll see you in the very next video,
and we're gonna quickly go over,
what we can do with
these three data types.
I'll see you there.